Initial Research Proposal: 
"Extensions to Particle Swarm Optimisation Techniques"

Ryan Kelly

Particle Swarm Optimisation (PSO) is a population-based 
optimization technique, motivated by the simulation of 
animal social behaviors such as fish schooling or bird 
flocking. As with other population-based optimization 
methods (such as Genetic Algorithms) the PSO algorithm 
starts by randomly initialising a population of 
individuals in the search space. Unlike other 
evolutionary methods, PSO involves no recombination of 
genetic material between individuals, instead utilising 
social behavior of particles in the swarm. At each 
iteration, it seeks the global optimal solution by 
adjusting the trajectory of each individual toward its 
own best location and towards the best particle in the 
entire swarm.

Advantages of PSO over similar techniques include its 
relatively simple implementation and the low number of 
parameters to be selected by the operator. However, 
like most population-based techniques the selection of 
population parameters still involves a degree of 
trial-and-error, and the success or failure of an 
optimisation run can be highly dependent on the 
parameters chosen.

I propose to investigate extensions to the particle 
swarm concept in order to allow parameter selection to 
be accomplished automatically, increasing the 
robustness and utility of the technique. The 
performance of these extensions will be measured 
through empirical simulations using well-known 
benchmarks, with the major objective being to improve 
performance after a pre-defined number of generations.

The major stages in this project are expected to be:

1. Review of state-of-the-art in Particle Swarm Optimisation

2. Review of parameter automation strategies utilised 
  in other population-based techniques, such as genetic 
  algorithms

3. Development of testing framework, incorporating 
  suitable benchmarks

4. Initial development of promising extensions

5. Detailed testing and evaluation of extensions

In addition to new extensions to the particle swarm 
technique, the outcomes of this project will include 
source code implementing these extensions and a 
framework for the evaluation of further extensions to 
the technique. It is intended that the code produced 
from this project will facilitate further 
investigations in this area. 
