
Ramasamy Uthurusamy
Secretary-Treasurer, IJCAI-07

  I am delighted to have a paper, "Property Persistence in the Situation
Calculus", accepted for oral presentation in the IJCAI-07 technical program.
The paper opens new avenues for automated reasoning in the situation calculus,
and IJCAI-07 will provide an excellent opportunity to explore novel applications
of the technique with experts from many subfields of AI research.  I belive
such collaboration can significantly expand the scope of practical systems
implemented using the situation calculus, which is already a leading formalism
for reasoning about action and change.

  I have been a PhD student at the University of Melbourne since April 2005.
My thesis, titled "High-Level Program Execution for Multi-Agent Teams", is
devoted to developing extensions of the situation calculus and the Golog
programming language for specifying and implementing the behavior of
multi-agent teams.  This involves, among other things, the development of
a strongly multi-agent situation calculus, an account of multi-agent knowledge
that can handle partial observability of actions, and a novel reasoning
procedure to allow knowledge to be computed effectively. My expected completion
date is April 2008.

  Unfortunately, I am ineligible for departmental funding of conference
attendence at this time.  Local AI societies are conference-based and
while recognising the importance of my work are unable to fund attendence
at IJCAI-07.  I am pursuing additional funding through the University
scholarships office but applications will not be processed until March 2007,
well after the conference.

  An estimate of my basic attendence costs is as follows:

    Conference Registration:    $ 300
    Hostel Accomodation:        $ 143
    Return Flight (Melbourne):  $2200
    ---------------------------------
    Total Basic Costs:          $2643


  Including general living costs this is a significant burden to finance
personally, compounded further by my recent marriage and resultingly weak
financial position.  Any assistance that could be provided by the Travel
Grants program would certainly go a long way to facilitating my attendance.

  Thank you for your consideration.


     Ryan Kelly
